---
description: by Stefan Thomke
---

# Building a Culture of Experimentation

## My Thoughts



## Summary

Online experiments can be a game changer when it comes to marketing and innovation. By running some 25,000 tests a year, for instance, Booking.com has transformed itself from a small start-up to the world’s largest accommodation platform. Today scaling up an organization’s experimentation capabilities is critical, but many firms struggle to do it—not because of technology but because of culture.

To break down cultural barriers, companies need to create an environment where curiosity is nurtured, data trumps opinions, any employee can launch tests, all experiments are ethical, and a new more-democratic model of leadership prevails. Ultimately, executives have to be able to confront the possibility that they are wrong daily and willing to give their people greater autonomy.

## Content

#### Booking's Experiment

Booking.com runs more than 1,000 rigorous tests simultaneously and, by my estimates, more than 25,000 tests a year. Digital giants such as Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft have found them to be a game changer when it comes to marketing and innovation. Any employee at Booking.com can launch an experiment on millions of customers without management’s permission. About 75% of its 1,800 technology and product staffers actively use the company’s experimentation platform.

#### Bad Result can be useful

An accident had led to a surprising insight: amazon DS finds that user retention drops 70% when difficulty of a game increases by 10%, thus they lower the difficulty and make users played 20% longer and revenue increased by 20%.

#### Experiment Result > opinion

The empirical results of online experiments must prevail when they clash with strong opinions, no matter whose opinions they are.“If the test tells you that the header of the website should be pink, then it should be pink. You always follow the test.”

#### Booking's Testing Procedure

To get things rolling, individuals or teams fill out an electronic form, which is visible to all and includes the name of the experiment, its purpose, the main beneficiaries (customers or suppliers), related past experiments, and the number of modifications to be tried out in A/B, A/B/C, or A/B/n tests. Once an experiment is up and running, the team watches it closely for the first few hours; if its primary or secondary metrics tank quickly, the team can stop the test. After that initial period, the platform continues to automatically run data-quality checks and sends warning messages if something is odd. To encourage openness, Booking.com maintains a central searchable repository of past experiments, with full descriptions of successes, failures, iterations, and final decisions. And everyone can see the real-time information generated by ongoing experiments.

#### Be Ethically Sensitive

When contemplating new experiments, companies must think carefully about whether users would consider the tests to be unethical. (ex. facebook test on whether emotional states were contagious on its platform)

#### New Leadership Model

Set a grand challenge that can be broken into testable hypotheses and key performance metrics. Employees need to see how their experiments support an overall strategic goal.

Put in place systems, resources, and organizational designs that allow for large-scale experimentation. Scientifically testing nearly every idea requires infrastructure: instrumentation, data pipelines, and data scientists. So senior leaders must tightly integrate the testing capability into company processes.

Leaders have to live by the same rules as everyone else and subject their own ideas to tests. Bosses ought to display intellectual humility and be unafraid to admit.

## Reference

{% embed url="https://hbr.org/2020/03/building-a-culture-of-experimentation" %}

{% embed url="https://vwo.com/events/convex-2019/sessions/manage-large-scale-experiments" %}
